CliAuth is a minimalistic terminal authenticator app designed to be highly
portable and customizable at a binary level, while still providing full support
for most websites that use the HOTP and TOTP authentication algorithms and a
comfortable user experience.

CliAuth is designed for those who want an authenticator app that simply does
its job and nothing else and works on any computer with a C compiler and
standard library.  What you see is what you get.  You aren't forced to create
an online account linked to a phone number and agree to cloud backups of
accounts with no other option for creating backups.  This authenticator works
perfectly without ever connecting to the internet.  Being free software, anyone
can view, audit, or modify the source code to make sure there's no hidden
functionality or backdoors.  CliAuth is also designed to be highly customizable
at a binary level due to the ability to enable or disable features at compile-time.
This can be useful for those who only want to build and execute what they
actually use while minimising on bloat.  This can also be useful for those who
want to create the smallest attack surface for hackers possible.

All account files are stored on disk at a user-defined location and are
encrypted by default, requiring a password to be entered every time the program
starts.  This allows the user to create and manage their own backups and have
full knowledge of where and how their accounts are stored.

As of version 0.1.0, there is no persistent account storage or user interface.
There is only decoding of a key URI and generation of a passcode from such URI.
Read the changelog for more information.

------------------------------------ Usage -------------------------------------

Since this is a terminal authenticator app, a terminal shell is required to run,
such as Bash or ZSH.  Executing from a graphical environment without using a
terminal will result in nothing happening.

For example, to execute from within Bash shells where the current working
directory contains the program, the following command would be used:

./cliauth

If attempting to execute fails with some version of "permission denied", the
executable needs to be given execute permissions.  This can be done on unix-like
operating systems with the following:

chmod +x cliauth

Attempting the previous command should now work.

For more usage information, see the help text when running the program with no
arguments.

----------------------------------- Building -----------------------------------

Building requires a unix-like system with a terminal shell, such as Bash or ZSH,
GNU make, and a C compiler.

If downloading directly from the GitHub repository, GNU autotools must also be
installed.

(optional) 0. Creating the configure script using autotools

   This is only necessary if cloning directly from the GitHub repository.
   Release tarballs will already contain the configure script.

   To generate the configure script, type the following:

   autoreconf -i

1. Generate a Makefile using the configure script

   By default, all compile-time features will be disabled.  To see which
   features are available, enter:
   
   ./configure --help

   Then navigate to the 'Optional Features' section.  There will be all
   available compile-time features.

   It is recommended to at least enable the SHA1 hash algorithm and ANSI
   support.  SHA1 is the default hash algorithm used by most websites to
   generate an authenticator code, and enabling ANSI support will allow
   coloring of terminal output.

   This can be done with the following flags when running configure:

   --enable-ansi --enable-hash-sha1

   It is also possible to specify a C compiler and C compiler flags as part
   of the configure step.

   For example, to use Clang targetting your native CPU architecture, O2
   code optimizations, and link-time optimizations, use the following flags
   when running configure:

   CC="clang" CFLAGS="-march=native -O2 -flto"

   To generate a Makefile which will be used to build the source code, run the
   configure script.  For example, to use the above options, the command would
   look like the following:

   ./configure CC="clang" CFLAGS="-march=native -O2 -flto" --enable-ansi --enable-hash-sha1

   If building the program multiple times, this step only needs to be run once.
   Successive builds can reuse the generated configuration from this step.

2. Build the program using the generated Makefile

   To build the program after generating the Makefile, simply type:

   make

   By default, make will only use a single CPU core.  To enable parallelization
   through multiple CPU cores, append the following flag:

   -j$(nproc)

   This will specify $(nproc) jobs, where $(nproc) will evaluate to the current
   number of available CPU cores.
   
   An example make command to build with all available CPU cores would look
   like the following:

   make -j$(nproc)

   The resulting binary will be a single file called 'cliauth'.  This file is
   the entire compiled program, and can be moved wherever desired.

(optional) 3. Strip program symbols

   By default, the compiled binary will include names for variables, types, and
   functions.  While useful for debugging, these are almost never useful for
   end users and end up bloating the binary size.

   To strip symbols, you must either have GNU binutils installed or LLVM.

   To strip symbols using GNU binutils, type the following:

   strip cliauth

   To strip symbols using LLVM, type the following:

   llvm-strip cliauth

   The stripped binary will overwrite the unstripped binary, which means if
   the program needs to have symbols restored, the stripped binary must be
   deleted and then re-run step 2.

